src/content/docs/infrastructure/microsoft-azure-integrations/azure-integrations-list/azure-sql-database-monitoring-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Azure SQL Database monitoring integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Microsoft Azure integrations
  - Azure integrations list
metaDescription: 'New Relic''s Microsoft Azure SQL Database integration: what data it reports and how to enable it.'
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/microsoft-azure-integrations/azure-integrations-list/azure-sql-database-monitoring-integration
  - /docs/azure-azure_sql-integration
  - /docs/azure-sql-database-monitoring-integration
---

[New Relic's integrations](/docs/infrastructure/integrations-getting-started/getting-started/introduction-infrastructure-integrations) include an integration for reporting your [Microsoft Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/sql-database/) metrics and other data to New Relic. This document explains how to activate the integration and describes the data reported.

## Features

New Relic gathers database data from Azure's fully-managed relational cloud database service. Azure SQL provides single databases with their own set of resources, and elastic pools that share a set of resources. Both are associated with an Azure SQL Database logical server. If databases are protected by a firewall, they can be replicated and restored to a previous point in time.

Using New Relic, you can:

* View Azure SQL Database data in pre-built dashboards.
* [Run custom queries and visualize the data](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Create alert conditions to notify you of changes in data.

## Activate integration [#activate]

To enable the integration follow standard procedures to [activate your Azure service in New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/microsoft-azure-integrations/getting-started/activate-azure-integrations).

## Configuration and polling [#polling]

You can change the polling frequency and filter data using [configuration options](/docs/integrations/new-relic-integrations/getting-started/configure-polling-frequency-data-collection-cloud-integrations).

New Relic queries your Azure Database services according to a default [polling](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure-integrations/getting-started/azure-integration-polling) interval, which varies depending on the integration. Polling frequency for the Azure SQL Database integration:

* Polling interval: 5 minutes
* Resolution: 1 data point per minute

## Find and use data [#find-and-use]

To [explore your integration data](/docs/infrastructure/integrations/find-use-infrastructure-integration-data), go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Infrastructure > Azure > (select an integration)**.

Data is organized like this:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        **Azure SQL Database data**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Organized in New Relic**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Single database
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a single database is attached to `AzureSqlDatabaseSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Elastic pool
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about an elastic pool is attached to `AzureSqlElasticPoolSample`event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Firewall
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a firewall is attached to `AzureSqlFirewallSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Database replication link
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a database replication link is attached to `AzureSqlReplicationLinkSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Database restore point
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a database restore point is attached to `AzureSqlRestorePointSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Logical server
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a logical server is attached to `AzureSqlServerSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Metric data [#metrics]

This integration collects the following [metric data](/docs/infrastructure/integrations-getting-started/getting-started/understand-integration-data-data-types#metric):

### Database sample metrics [#database-sample]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `cpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average CPU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `physicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average data IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `logWritePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average log IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storage`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total database size, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `connectionSuccessful`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of successful connections.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `connectionFailed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of failed connections.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `blockedByFirewall`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of requests blocked by firewall.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `deadlock`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of deadlocks.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storagePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Database size percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `xtpStoragePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average in-memory OLTP storage percent.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `workersPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average workers percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `sessionsPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average sessions percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average number of DTU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuUsed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average number of used DTU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        DWU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Percentage of DWU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwuUsed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Number of used DWU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwCpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DW node level CPU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwPhysicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DW node level data IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseSizeCurrentBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total current database size in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseSizeLimitBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Database limit in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `cpuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average limit of CPUs. Applies to vCore-based databases.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Elastic pool sample metrics [#elastic-pool]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `cpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average CPU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseCpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average CPU percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `physicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average data IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databasePhysicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average data IO percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `logWritePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average log IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseLogWritePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average log IO percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseDtuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storagePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average storage percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `workersPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average workers percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseWorkersPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average workers percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `sessionsPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average sessions percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseSessionsPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average sessions percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `eDTULimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storageLimitBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average storage limit, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `eDTUUsed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average used eDTU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storageUsedBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average used storage, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseStorageUsedBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average used storage per database, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `xtpStoragePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average in-memory OLTP storage percent.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Server sample metrics [#server-sample]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuCurrent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average utilization percentage relative to the DTU of the database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Database DTU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Add dprecation warning to deprecate Azure SQL

src/content/docs/infrastructure/microsoft-azure-integrations/azure-integrations-list/azure-sql-database-monitoring-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Azure SQL Database monitoring integration
tags:
  - Integrations
  - Microsoft Azure integrations
  - Azure integrations list
metaDescription: 'New Relic''s Microsoft Azure SQL Database integration: what data it reports and how to enable it.'
redirects:
  - /docs/integrations/microsoft-azure-integrations/azure-integrations-list/azure-sql-database-monitoring-integration
  - /docs/azure-azure_sql-integration
  - /docs/azure-sql-database-monitoring-integration
---

<Callout variant="important" title="EOL NOTICE">
  In January 2024, we'll be discontinuing support for this integration. You can now use the new Azure Monitor integration. See how to [set up Azure Monitor integration](/docs/infrastructure/microsoft-azure-integrations/azure-integrations-list/azure-monitor/).
</Callout>

[New Relic's integrations](/docs/infrastructure/integrations-getting-started/getting-started/introduction-infrastructure-integrations) include an integration for reporting your [Microsoft Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/sql-database/) metrics and other data to New Relic. This document explains how to activate the integration and describes the data reported.

## Features

New Relic gathers database data from Azure's fully-managed relational cloud database service. Azure SQL provides single databases with their own set of resources, and elastic pools that share a set of resources. Both are associated with an Azure SQL Database logical server. If databases are protected by a firewall, they can be replicated and restored to a previous point in time.

Using New Relic, you can:

* View Azure SQL Database data in pre-built dashboards.
* [Run custom queries and visualize the data](/docs/using-new-relic/data/understand-data/query-new-relic-data).
* Create alert conditions to notify you of changes in data.

## Activate integration [#activate]

To enable the integration follow standard procedures to [activate your Azure service in New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/microsoft-azure-integrations/getting-started/activate-azure-integrations).

## Configuration and polling [#polling]

You can change the polling frequency and filter data using [configuration options](/docs/integrations/new-relic-integrations/getting-started/configure-polling-frequency-data-collection-cloud-integrations).

New Relic queries your Azure Database services according to a default [polling](/docs/integrations/microsoft-azure-integrations/getting-started/azure-integration-polling) interval, which varies depending on the integration. Polling frequency for the Azure SQL Database integration:

* Polling interval: 5 minutes
* Resolution: 1 data point per minute

## Find and use data [#find-and-use]

To [explore your integration data](/docs/infrastructure/integrations/find-use-infrastructure-integration-data), go to **[one.newrelic.com > All capabilities](https://one.newrelic.com/all-capabilities) > Infrastructure > Azure > (select an integration)**.

Data is organized like this:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "200px" }}>
        **Azure SQL Database data**
      </th>

      <th>
        **Organized in New Relic**
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        Single database
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a single database is attached to `AzureSqlDatabaseSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Elastic pool
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about an elastic pool is attached to `AzureSqlElasticPoolSample`event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Firewall
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a firewall is attached to `AzureSqlFirewallSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Database replication link
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a database replication link is attached to `AzureSqlReplicationLinkSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Database restore point
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a database restore point is attached to `AzureSqlRestorePointSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        Logical server
      </td>

      <td>
        * Data about a logical server is attached to `AzureSqlServerSample` event type.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Metric data [#metrics]

This integration collects the following [metric data](/docs/infrastructure/integrations-getting-started/getting-started/understand-integration-data-data-types#metric):

### Database sample metrics [#database-sample]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `cpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average CPU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `physicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average data IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `logWritePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average log IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storage`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total database size, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `connectionSuccessful`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of successful connections.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `connectionFailed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of failed connections.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `blockedByFirewall`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of requests blocked by firewall.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `deadlock`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total number of deadlocks.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storagePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Database size percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `xtpStoragePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average in-memory OLTP storage percent.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `workersPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average workers percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `sessionsPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average sessions percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average number of DTU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuUsed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average number of used DTU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        DWU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Percentage of DWU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwuUsed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Number of used DWU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwCpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DW node level CPU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dwPhysicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DW node level data IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseSizeCurrentBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Total current database size in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseSizeLimitBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Database limit in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `cpuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average limit of CPUs. Applies to vCore-based databases.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Elastic pool sample metrics [#elastic-pool]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `cpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average CPU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseCpuPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average CPU percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `physicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average data IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databasePhysicalDataReadPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average data IO percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `logWritePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average log IO percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseLogWritePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average log IO percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseDtuConsumptionPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storagePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average storage percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `workersPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average workers percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseWorkersPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average workers percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `sessionsPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average sessions percentage.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseSessionsPercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average sessions percentage, per database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `eDTULimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average DTU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storageLimitBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average storage limit, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `eDTUUsed`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average used eDTU.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `storageUsedBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average used storage, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `databaseStorageUsedBytes`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average used storage per database, in bytes.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `xtpStoragePercent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average in-memory OLTP storage percent.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Server sample metrics [#server-sample]

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th style={{ width: "300px" }}>
        Metric
      </th>

      <th>
        Description
      </th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuCurrent`
      </td>

      <td>
        Average utilization percentage relative to the DTU of the database.
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `dtuLimit`
      </td>

      <td>
        Database DTU limit.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
